[2.6] Rerun guide to include retries (#2195)
astronomer/docs: learn/rerunning-dags.md

id: rerunning-dags
---

import CodeBlock from '@theme/CodeBlock';
import retry_example from '!!raw-loader!../code-samples/dags/rerunning-dags/retry_example.py';

Airflow DAGs can be set to run using a wide variety of [scheduling](scheduling-in-airflow.md) options. There are some uses cases in which you want tasks or whole DAGs to run outside of their regular schedule, for example if:

- You want one or more tasks to automatically try running again in case they fail.
- You need to manually rerun a failed task for one or multiple DAG runs.
- You want to deploy a DAG with a start date of one year ago and trigger all DAG runs that would have been scheduled in the past year.
- You have a running DAG and realize you need it to process data for two months prior to the DAG's start date.

In this guide, you'll learn how to configure automatic retries, rerun tasks or DAGs, trigger historical DAG runs, and review the Airflow concepts of catchup and backfill.

## Assumed knowledge

To get the most out of this guide, you should have an understanding of:

- DAG scheduling. See [Scheduling and timetables in Airflow](scheduling-in-airflow.md)

## Automatically retry tasks

> In Airflow you can configure individual tasks to retry automatically in case of a failure. The number of times a task will retry again before failing permanently can be defined at the Airflow configuration level using the core config `default_task_retries`. You can set this configuration either in `airflow.cfg` or via the environment variable `AIRFLOW__CORE__DEFAULT_TASK_RETRIES`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Airflow you can configure individual tasks to retry automatically in case of a failure. The default number of times a task will retry before failing permanently can be defined at the Airflow configuration level using the core config `default_task_retries`. You can set this configuration either in `airflow.cfg` or via the environment variable `AIRFLOW__CORE__DEFAULT_TASK_RETRIES`. 
```

The `default_task_retries` of an Airflow environment can be overwritten at the task level by using the `retries` parameter.

The time spent between retries is defined by the `retry_delay` parameter (default: `timedelta(seconds=300)`). As of Airflow 2.6, a maximum value for the retry delay can be set in the core Airflow config `max_task_retry_delay` (`AIRFLOW__CORE__MAX_TASK_RETRY_DELAY`), which by default is set at 24 hours, or for individual tasks with the parameter `max_retry_delay`.

To progressively increase the wait time between retries until `max_retry_delay` is reached, set `retry_exponential_backoff` to `True`.

> It is a common practice to set the number of retries for all tasks in a DAG by using `default_args` and override it for specific tasks as needed by providing a different value to the task-level `retries` parameter. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is common practice to set the number of retries for all tasks in a DAG by using `default_args` and override it for specific tasks as needed by providing a different value to the task-level `retries` parameter. 
```
I'm not sure which is right (maybe it's in our style guide but I can't seem to get to the docs notion page right now....), but we should be consistent between using "task level" or "task-level"

The DAG below contains 4 tasks that will always fail. Each of the tasks uses a different retry parameter configuration.

<CodeBlock language="python">{retry_example}</CodeBlock>

> ## Manually rerun tasks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Manually rerun tasks or DAGs
```
Since we also talk about clearing DAG runs in this section

[Rerunning tasks](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/dag-run.html#re-run-tasks) or full DAGs in Airflow is a common workflow. 

To rerun a task in Airflow you clear the task status to update the `max_tries` and current task instance state values in the metastore. After the task reruns, the `max_tries` value updates to `0`, and the current task instance state updates to `None`.

> To clear the task status, go to the Grid View in the Airflow UI, select the task instance you want to rerun and click the **Clear task** button.

Reviewer: Can you not do this from the Graph view anymore? I think it makes the most sense to do it from the Grid view, but we should still list both if it's possible in both (no need to have another screenshot though since it's the same process, or at least it used to be)

Reviewer: Makes sense to me! Agree you don't need to provide specific instructions for graph view - it's easy enough to figure out if you already generally know how it works.

![Clear Task Status](/img/guides/clear_tasks_ui.png)

A popup window will appear giving you the following options to clear and rerun additional task instances related to the selected task:

- Past: Clears any instances of the task in DAG runs with a data interval before the selected task instance.
- Future: Clears any instances of the task in DAG runs with a data interval after the selected task instance.
- Upstream: Clears any tasks in the current DAG run which are upstream from the selected task instance.
- Downstream: Clears any tasks in the current DAG run which are downstream from the selected task instance.
- Recursive: Clears any task instances of the task in the child DAG and any parent DAGs if you have cross-DAG dependencies.
- Only Failed: Clears only failed instances of any task instances selected based on the above options.

> Check which task instances will be clear with the current settings by expanding the dropdown menu **Affected tasks: X**. Click **Clear** to confirm and the task(s) will be cleared and rescheduled for another run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check which task instances will be cleared with the current settings by expanding the dropdown menu **Affected tasks: X**. Click **Clear** to confirm and the task(s) will be cleared and rescheduled for another run.
```

---
title: "Rerun Airflow DAGs and tasks"
sidebar_label: "Rerun DAGs and tasks"
description: "How to configure retries, catchup, backfill, and clear task instances in Airflow."
id: rerunning-dags
---

import CodeBlock from '@theme/CodeBlock';
import retry_example from '!!raw-loader!../code-samples/dags/rerunning-dags/retry_example.py';

> Airflow DAGs can be set to run using a wide variety of [scheduling](scheduling-in-airflow.md) options. There are some uses cases in which you want tasks or whole DAGs to run outside of their regular schedule, for example if:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can set when to run Airflow DAGs using a wide variety of [scheduling](scheduling-in-airflow.md) options. Some uses cases where you might want tasks or DAGs to run outside of their regular schedule include:
```

- You want one or more tasks to automatically run again if they fail.
- You need to manually rerun a failed task for one or multiple DAG runs.
- You want to deploy a DAG with a start date of one year ago and trigger all DAG runs that would have been scheduled in the past year.
- You have a running DAG and realize you need it to process data for two months prior to the DAG's start date.

In this guide, you'll learn how to configure automatic retries, rerun tasks or DAGs, trigger historical DAG runs, and review the Airflow concepts of catchup and backfill.

## Assumed knowledge

To get the most out of this guide, you should have an understanding of:

- DAG scheduling. See [Scheduling and timetables in Airflow](scheduling-in-airflow.md)

## Automatically retry tasks

> In Airflow you can configure individual tasks to retry automatically in case of a failure. The default number of times a task will retry before failing permanently can be defined at the Airflow configuration level using the core config `default_task_retries`. You can set this configuration either in `airflow.cfg` or via the environment variable `AIRFLOW__CORE__DEFAULT_TASK_RETRIES`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Airflow, you can configure individual tasks to retry automatically in case of a failure. The default number of times a task will retry before failing permanently can be defined at the Airflow configuration level using the core config `default_task_retries`. You can set this configuration either in `airflow.cfg` or with the environment variable `AIRFLOW__CORE__DEFAULT_TASK_RETRIES`. 
```

> The `default_task_retries` of an Airflow environment can be overwritten at the task level by using the `retries` parameter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can overwrite the `default_task_retries` of an Airflow environment at the task level by using the `retries` parameter.
```

> The time spent between retries is defined by the `retry_delay` parameter (default: `timedelta(seconds=300)`). As of Airflow 2.6, a maximum value for the retry delay can be set in the core Airflow config `max_task_retry_delay` (`AIRFLOW__CORE__MAX_TASK_RETRY_DELAY`), which by default is set at 24 hours, or for individual tasks with the parameter `max_retry_delay`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `retry_delay` parameter (default: `timedelta(seconds=300)`) defines the time spent between retries. As of Airflow 2.6, you can set a maximum value for the retry delay in the core Airflow config `max_task_retry_delay` (`AIRFLOW__CORE__MAX_TASK_RETRY_DELAY`), which, by default, is set at 24 hours. Or, for individual tasks, you can set the maximum retry delay with the parameter, `max_retry_delay`.
```

To progressively increase the wait time between retries until `max_retry_delay` is reached, set `retry_exponential_backoff` to `True`.

> It is common practice to set the number of retries for all tasks in a DAG by using `default_args` and override it for specific tasks as needed by providing a different value to the task level `retries` parameter. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is common practice to set the number of retries for all tasks in a DAG by using `default_args` and override it for specific tasks as needed. To override specific tasks, provide a different value to the task level `retries` parameter. 
```

The DAG below contains 4 tasks that will always fail. Each of the tasks uses a different retry parameter configuration.

<CodeBlock language="python">{retry_example}</CodeBlock>

## Manually rerun tasks or DAGs

[Rerunning tasks](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/dag-run.html#re-run-tasks) or full DAGs in Airflow is a common workflow. 

To rerun a task in Airflow you clear the task status to update the `max_tries` and current task instance state values in the metastore. After the task reruns, the `max_tries` value updates to `0`, and the current task instance state updates to `None`.

To clear the task status, go to the Grid View in the Airflow UI, select the task instance you want to rerun and click the **Clear task** button.

![Clear Task Status](/img/guides/clear_tasks_ui.png)

> A popup window will appear giving you the following options to clear and rerun additional task instances related to the selected task:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A popup window appears, giving you the following options to clear and rerun additional task instances related to the selected task:
```

For more info on the positional arguments for the `clear` command, see the [Airflow documentation](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/cli-and-env-variables-ref.html#clear).

To clear a full DAG run, go to the Grid View in the Airflow UI, click on the DAG run and then click **Clear** as shown in the following image. 

![Clear DAG Status](/img/guides/clear_dag_ui.png)

:::caution

> Clearing or changing task statuses directly in the Airflow metastore can cause unexpected behavior in Airflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should not clear or chang task statuses directly in the Airflow metastore as doing so can cause unexpected behavior in Airflow.
```
Making this a bit stronger :)

For more info on the positional arguments for the `clear` command, see the [Airflow documentation](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/cli-and-env-variables-ref.html#clear).

> To clear a full DAG run, go to the Grid View in the Airflow UI, click on the DAG run and then click **Clear** as shown in the following image. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To clear a full DAG run, go to the Grid View in the Airflow UI, click on the DAG run, and then click **Clear** as shown in the following image. 
```

![Clear DAG Status](/img/guides/clear_dag_ui.png)

:::caution

> You should not clear or change task statuses directly in the Airflow metastore as doing so can cause unexpected behavior in Airflow.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Don't clear or change task statuses directly in the Airflow metastore. This can cause unexpected behavior in Airflow.
```

## Catchup

> You can use the built-in [catchup](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/dag-run.html#catchup) DAG argument to process data for logical dates between the set `start_date` of a DAG and the current date.

Reviewer: lol'ing at how we every managed to publish "...starting a year ago". That makes no sense 😅

## Catchup

You can use the built-in [catchup](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/dag-run.html#catchup) DAG argument to process data for logical dates between the set `start_date` of a DAG and the current date.

> When the catchup parameter for a DAG is set to `True`, at the time the DAG is turned on in Airflow the scheduler starts a DAG run for every data interval that has not been run between the DAG's `start_date` and the current data interval. For example, if your DAG is scheduled to run daily and has a `start_date` of 1/1/2023, and you deploy that DAG and turn it on 2/1/2023, Airflow will schedule and start all of the daily DAG runs for January. Catchup is also triggered when you turn a DAG off for a period and then turn it on again.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the catchup parameter for a DAG is set to `True`, at the time the DAG is turned on in Airflow, the scheduler starts a DAG run for every data interval that has not been run between the DAG's `start_date` and the current data interval. For example, if your DAG is scheduled to run daily and has a `start_date` of 1/1/2023, and you deploy that DAG and turn it on 2/1/2023, Airflow will schedule and start all of the daily DAG runs for January. Catchup is also triggered when you turn a DAG off for a period and then turn it on again.
```

Reviewer 2: Because of the spacing, I keep reading it as "ketchup" and having to do a double take.

Author: 😂 I somehow never had that association but now I can't unsee it 🍅

                      dag_id
```

For example, `airflow dags backfill -s 2023-04-01 -e 2021-04-02 example_dag` backfills `example_dag` from April 1st-2nd 2023. For more information about the backfill parameter, see the [Airflow documentation](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/cli-and-env-variables-ref.html#backfill). 

When using backfill keep the following considerations in mind:

- Consider your available resources. If your backfill will trigger many DAG runs, you might want to add some of the catchup parameters to your DAG.
- Clearing the task or DAG status of a backfilled DAG run does not rerun the task or DAG.

> Alternatively, you can deploy a copy of the DAG with a new name and a start date that is the date you want to backfill to. Airflow will consider this a separate DAG so you won't see all the DAG runs and task instances in the same place, but it would accomplish running the DAG for data in the desired time period. If you have a small number of DAG runs to backfill, you can trigger them manually from the Airflow UI via `Trigger DAG w/ config` and choose the desired logical date as shown in the following image:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can deploy a copy of the DAG using a new name with the start date as the date you want to backfill to. Airflow considers this a separate DAG, so you won't see all the DAG runs and task instances in the same place, but it runs the DAG for data in the desired time period. If you have a small number of DAG runs to backfill, you can trigger them manually from the Airflow UI via `Trigger DAG w/ config` and choose the desired logical date as shown in the following image:
```

Alternatively, you can deploy a copy of the DAG with a new name and a start date that is the date you want to backfill to. Airflow will consider this a separate DAG so you won't see all the DAG runs and task instances in the same place, but it would accomplish running the DAG for data in the desired time period. If you have a small number of DAG runs to backfill, you can trigger them manually from the Airflow UI and choose the desired logical date as shown in the following image:

![Trigger Execution Date](/img/guides/trigger_execution_date.png)

> 
> 
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```
